When I was young, one of my favorite desserts was my mother's sweet potato pie.
It always tasted the same.
To me, it was perfect every time.
I'd often ask her, Ma, what do you put in here to make it taste so good?
She'd always respond, I just use the same stuff every time.
In other words, number one, she wasn't going to tell me.
And two, she had a recipe that worked, so she never changed it.
Well, the Bible is like a cookbook, full of recipes that work, that can make our life
spiritually successful.
Please note how Paul explains the benefits of these recipes at 2 Timothy, chapter 3,
16 and 17.
All scripture is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching, for
reproving, for setting things straight, for disciplining and righteousness,
so that the man of God may be fully competent,
completely equipped for every good work.
Sometimes the recipe from God's inspired word comes in a form of a Bible example,
as we study that example, we extract qualities and attitudes that we can imitate.
Other times, there's a list of qualities, such as the various aspects of the
fruitage of God's Spirit, mentioned in Galatians chapter 5,
or the list of positive things to consider at Philippians 4, 8 and 9.
And of course, there are numerous Bible principles that we can use
to help us make good decisions.
Meditating on and applying these principles, qualities and examples
can be a recipe that contributes to spiritual success.
Let's consider one example.
It's recorded in 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 8.
Take note of the ingredients.
All of you have unity of mind,
fellow feeling, brotherly affection, tender compassion,
and humility. This is a recipe of five
beautiful qualities that contribute to our spiritual success.
How so? Let's discuss the ingredients. Peter first mentions unity of mind.
The footnote says, think in agreement.
So we must think in agreement with one another,
but especially with Jehovah and his organization.
In what way? The latter part of Isaiah 30, 15 says,
your strength will be in keeping calm and showing trust.
That's exactly what the faithful slave has done.
So let us have unity of mind with them and have the same
calmness and confidence in Jehovah as we face personal challenges in our life.
In 2 Kings chapter 4, a shoot of my woman is mentioned
who had confidence in the prophet Elisha.
She suffered a terrible tragedy in her life, yet she remained calm
and showed trust in the man of the true God Elisha.
Her example of trust in Jehovah's representative
is worthy of invitation. In fact, there is an expression
she uses in chapter 4 that conveys the level of trust
we want to have in Jehovah and his earthly representatives today.
Let me tell you about this woman. She and her husband lived in
Shunam. Elisha would regularly make encouraging
visits with them when he was in that city. Elisha
appreciated their hospitality and wanted to do something
kind for them. What would he do? Well,
verses 14 through 16 of 2 Kings chapter 4
indicate that she did not have a son
and her husband was old. So Elisha told her that the next
year she would be embracing a son. Well,
as Elisha foretold, she gave birth the next year.
But unfortunately, something drastic happened.
The child grew up and one day went out to work with his father.
In verse 19, the boy complained of a headache,
which led to his eventual death.
What would this woman do? This was her only son.
Well, she had confidence in the man of the true God, Elisha.
So she says to her husband, in verse 22,
send me, please, one of the attendants and one of the donkeys,
and let me go quickly to the man of the true God and return.
In verse 23, her husband asks,
why are you going to see him today? In other words,
what can he do for us? Note her response
at the end of verse 23 and verse 24.
However, she said,
everything is all right.
So she saddled the donkey and said to her attendant,
go quickly. Do not slow down for me unless I tell you to.
So this calm, trusting woman rides about 19 miles or 30 kilometers
and finds Elisha and he ends up resurrecting her son.
Her trusting relationship and association with Elisha
had given her confidence. Although she experienced a tragedy,
she knew that everything was all right.
Elisha's faith and confidence in Jehovah
helped this devoted woman also to remain calm and confident
when facing adversity.
At Isaiah 4110,
note Jehovah's assurance,
do not be afraid for I am with you.
Do not be anxious for I am your God.
I will fortify you. Yes, I will help you.
I will really hold on to you with my right hand of righteousness.
So let's work hard to have unity of mind with Jehovah's organization
by keeping calm and showing trust in Jehovah
and being confident that with Jehovah's help,
everything will be all right.
That's a beautiful ingredient in this recipe for spiritual success.
At first Peter 3.8, Peter next mentions three more ingredients.
They are aspects of love,
fellow feeling, brotherly affection, tender compassion.
These aspects of love convey empathy.
Empathy is the ability to understand and share the feelings of another.
As this system draws to a close,
Satan will try to divide us from within.
So love for our brothers and sisters
and empathizing with one another will become ever more important.
It will serve to unify us.
Think of the empathy of Jehovah's organization.
We all have personal challenges,
but so do our overseers,
those taking the lead in the organization here on earth.
Some of them have lost loved ones in death, just like us.
Some have experienced sickness and anxiety, just like us.
We love them for their empathy.
Think about the heavenly part of Jehovah's organization.
Since Satan's rebellion, Jehovah has been disappointed,
saddened, angered at the actions of imperfect men.
These are real feelings that our empathetic Heavenly Father possesses.
Jesus experienced similar disappointment and sadness
as he also saw the rebellion of Satan, Adam, and Eve and what's resulted.
In fact, Jesus' understanding became deeper
when he became human and began to experience human emotions.
The April 15, 2002 Watchtower article entitled,
Empathy, Key to Kindness and Compassion.
Mention three ways we can sharpen our sensitivity to the knees
and feelings of others.
The first.
Listen.
By listening carefully, we learn what problems others face.
And the better we listen, the more likely they will open up their hearts
and reveal their feelings.
Second, observe.
Not everyone will openly tell us how they feel
or what they are going through.
A keen observer will notice
when a fellow Christian needs encouragement or some practical assistance.
Third, use your imagination.
The most powerful way to stimulate empathy is to ask yourself,
if I were in this situation, how would I feel?
How would I respond?
What would I need?
So, fellow feeling, brotherly affection and tender compassion
are aspects of loving empathy
and our valuable ingredients to our spiritual success
and will benefit others.
The final quality highlighted in First Peter 3.8 is humility.
Why do we need humility?
Because we need to trust.
Trust in Jehovah and His organization requires humility,
not relying on our own strength or wisdom.
Humility helps us to cope with whatever God permits.
When we face anxiety and pressure in our life,
we may yearn for immediate relief.
But humility helps us to trust
that Jehovah knows precisely when
and how to act in our behalf.
So we wait patiently.
Jehovah always responds to our needs in His time and in His way.
Humility helps us to admit that Jehovah's thoughts
are vastly superior to our own.
We recognize our limited discernment
in comparison with Jehovah's all-encompassing perception.
He sees things we do not discern,
and thus we trust that His way of doing things is always best.
So, as the Great Tribulation approaches,
humbly trust in Jehovah and His organization.
First Peter, chapter 5,
and verse number 6 says this,
humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God,
so that He may exalt you in due time.
Brothers, there is no better place to be
than under the mighty hand of God.
Humility is a beautiful ingredient
that helps us to remain there.
So what were the ingredients in our recipe
for spiritual success?
First was unity of mind.
Be at unity with Jehovah's organization today
by keeping calm and showing trust.
In the words of the Shunamaid woman
and second Kings chapter 4,
when facing adversity always know that with Jehovah,
everything is all right.
Second was fellow feeling,
brotherly affection, and tender compassion,
all aspects of loving empathy.
Remember, we're all in this together.
The celestial chariot is empathetic
toward what we face
and will respond to our personal
and organizational needs.
Finally, try always to include humility
in your recipe for success.
Humility requires trust.
So trust that Jehovah's way of doing things
is always best.
Psalm 119 verse 105 says,
that the Bible is a lamp to my foot
and a light for my path.
So take time to consider a portion
of God's word each day.
As situations, decisions,
and challenges arise,
search for the right recipe,
Bible example, Christian quality,
principal, when you do,
Jehovah will light up the path ahead of you
and help you to be spiritually successful.